So let me move on and
I want to do a quick TypeScript interlude.
So we're gonna be using
TypeScript where appropriate, but
when we talk about plain old JavaScript,
what do we mean?
Well, we're typically
talking about ECMAScript 5
the reason being is that this is
what runs in all the browsers and
so when you write
JavaScript at some point,
it's being compiled into
plain old JavaScript.
I know it's boring but
More frustrating is that
if I said I want you
to create a class and
add some methods to it.
Well, it is five like,
this is a real mind warp.
Like how do you create the concept of
classes when that's not even part of
the framework and so imagine so I learned
how to program with ActionScript one,
which was essentially Ekman script three.
Imagine trying to learn object oriented
programming on a prototypical language
like this.
The problem with this is that We're
trying to express an object and
methods in the context of a class but
the code itself doesn't
look anything like it is that
it's obscured by the language
mechanisms of like,
like what has shaped our prototype.
Well, you don't understand
that until you have to go and
backfill like this long theoretical and
academic discourse of like how prototype
works and what does this mean?
Well, who knows what does this mean?
It can mean anything.
And so, things are a little better when we
move to ECMO script at least I can define,
the concept of an object that does things.
And so now we have a class with
a shape that, has a constructor
method that has two more methods
set location, and get location.
So somebody would look at this
especially coming from maybe a classical
background and
this would make a lot of sense.
This, you look at just like Java
programmers and C sharp programmers,
they see this and they just throw
a chair through the window.
They can look at this, and
this makes sense, or more sense.
TypeScript, on the other hand,
which we're going to use,
because it's better at
communicating intention,
and let me show you what I
mean there are now this little
bit of sprinkles that we've put on to this
that helps communicate not only to myself,
my future self, but
other developers and to the IE.
What I expect when I write my code so
if we go back here,
this is pretty good, but how do I know.
What ID is, is that a string or a number?
How do I know what x and y are?
Is it an object, a number, a string?
What is it?
Well, TypeScript because it's
good at communicating intent,
this is one of the main
reasons why I love it.
Is that we go in and say ID is string,
x and y, or a number.
And that's helpful because
not only are we communicating
to somebody who's consuming this,
but to the UI,
now it can infer and
introspect this class and help you out.
Not only that is we can
start to extract pieces and
say, location is actually a combination,
it's just an object that has an X and
Y property.
So we can pull that out, and we can define
that and so now when you look at x and y,
what are we talking about?
Well Probably we're talking about location
but we're not communicating it very well.
Now when we look at this,
when we say get location, and
it returns this dot location,
that makes a lot more sense.
And so this is again,
reducing complexity at
the technical level and
at the human level.
This is why I believe, and
I'm all in on TypeScript, in fact,
every major framework that is around has
TypeScript options if it's not baked in,
so I know that obviously angular
is all in on TypeScript, but
you can do react, you can do view.
Interestingly enough, the one framework
that a lot of people don't talk
about anymore, but it's still really,
really good is dojo and
Dylan Shimon he lives in Phoenix and
he runs the TypeScript meetup in dojo.
They've done a lot of
really cool stuff but
it's all TypeScript they rewrote
the entire framework in TypeScript.
So pretty much every major framework that
I know of is at least as an option for
TypeScript.
Why?
Because it reduces complexity through
meaningful Signaling of intention.
And when we talk about flow control,
what are we talking about communication,
TypeScript helps solve
the communication problem.
But at the end of the day is just
JavaScript is that our TypeScript
is compiled down into
something the browser can use.